The Machine Learning Tsunami
In 2006, Geoffrey Hinton et al. published a paper1
showing how to train a deep neural
network capable of recognizing handwritten digits with state-of-the-art precision
(>98%). They branded this technique “Deep Learning.” Training a deep neural net
was widely considered impossible at the time,2
 and most researchers had abandoned
the idea since the 1990s. This paper revived the interest of the scientific community
and before long many new papers demonstrated that Deep Learning was not only
possible, but capable of mind-blowing achievements that no other Machine Learning
(ML) technique could hope to match (with the help of tremendous computing power
and great amounts of data). This enthusiasm soon extended to many other areas of
Machine Learning.
Fast-forward 10 years and Machine Learning has conquered the industry: it is now at
the heart of much of the magic in today’s high-tech products, ranking your web
search results, powering your smartphone’s speech recognition, and recommending
videos, beating the world champion at the game of Go. Before you know it, it will be
driving your car.
Machine Learning in Your Projects
So naturally you are excited about Machine Learning and you would love to join the
party!
Perhaps you would like to give your homemade robot a brain of its own? Make it rec‐
ognize faces? Or learn to walk around?
xiii
Or maybe your company has tons of data (user logs, financial data, production data,
machine sensor data, hotline stats, HR reports, etc.), and more than likely you could
unearth some hidden gems if you just knew where to look; for example:
• Segment customers and find the best marketing strategy for each group
• Recommend products for each client based on what similar clients bought
• Detect which transactions are likely to be fraudulent
• Predict next year’s revenue
• And more
Whatever the reason, you have decided to learn Machine Learning and implement it
in your projects. Great idea!
Objective and Approach
This book assumes that you know close to nothing about Machine Learning. Its goal
is to give you the concepts, the intuitions, and the tools you need to actually imple‐
ment programs capable of learning from data.
We will cover a large number of techniques, from the simplest and most commonly
used (such as linear regression) to some of the Deep Learning techniques that regu‐
larly win competitions.
Rather than implementing our own toy versions of each algorithm, we will be using
actual production-ready Python frameworks:
• Scikit-Learn is very easy to use, yet it implements many Machine Learning algo‐
rithms efficiently, so it makes for a great entry point to learn Machine Learning.
• TensorFlow is a more complex library for distributed numerical computation
using data flow graphs. It makes it possible to train and run very large neural net‐
works efficiently by distributing the computations across potentially thousands
of multi-GPU servers. TensorFlow was created at Google and supports many of
their large-scale Machine Learning applications. It was open-sourced in Novem‐
ber 2015.
The book favors a hands-on approach, growing an intuitive understanding of
Machine Learning through concrete working examples and just a little bit of theory.
While you can read this book without picking up your laptop, we highly recommend
you experiment with the code examples available online as Jupyter notebooks at
https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml.
xiv | Preface
Prerequisites
This book assumes that you have some Python programming experience and that you
are familiar with Python’s main scientific libraries, in particular NumPy, Pandas, and
Matplotlib.
Also, if you care about what’s under the hood you should have a reasonable under‐
standing of college-level math as well (calculus, linear algebra, probabilities, and sta‐
tistics).
If you don’t know Python yet, http://learnpython.org/ is a great place to start. The offi‐
cial tutorial on python.org is also quite good.
If you have never used Jupyter, Chapter 2 will guide you through installation and the
basics: it is a great tool to have in your toolbox.
If you are not familiar with Python’s scientific libraries, the provided Jupyter note‐
books include a few tutorials. There is also a quick math tutorial for linear algebra.
Roadmap
This book is organized in two parts. Part I, The Fundamentals of Machine Learning,
covers the following topics:
• What is Machine Learning? What problems does it try to solve? What are the
main categories and fundamental concepts of Machine Learning systems?
• The main steps in a typical Machine Learning project.
• Learning by fitting a model to data.
• Optimizing a cost function.
• Handling, cleaning, and preparing data.
• Selecting and engineering features.
• Selecting a model and tuning hyperparameters using cross-validation.
• The main challenges of Machine Learning, in particular underfitting and overfit‐
ting (the bias/variance tradeoff).
• Reducing the dimensionality of the training data to fight the curse of dimension‐
ality.
• The most common learning algorithms: Linear and Polynomial Regression,
Logistic Regression, k-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machines, Decision
Trees, Random Forests, and Ensemble methods.